SO WE'LL GET STARTED.
>> WELCOME TO THE MAY SEVEN 24
REGULAR MEETING OF THE
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION AND PROCEDURES TO A
FULL FLEDGED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED FOR CLARIFICATION.
WE ARE MEETING IN THE BASEMENT
TODAY OF THE CITY COUNCIL TO
TRY TO UPGRADE THE CHANCELLOR
IN THE CHAMBERS AND THEN ALSO
FOR RESTROOM'S THERE IS A
GENDERING RESTROOM OUTSIDE TO
THE MEDIA RIGHT THERE GOING
STRAIGHT JUST PAST THE ON THE
BACK ITSELF WITH THAT LOOKS
KELLY, WOULD YOU PLEASE FOLLOW
CHARLIE HERE?
THANKS FOR BEING HERE.
SECRETARY RICE HERE OUT HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COUNCIL MEMBERS IS HERE.
COMMISSIONER PARK COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE HERE.
WINTER OUT THERE.
YOU'VE GOT THE FULL HOUSE.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE JUNDAH COMMISSIONER WYSTAN
SECONDED BY THE BRITISH ALL IN
FAVOR SAY ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY
NONE.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOU HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
OF APRIL 16 24.
WELL, COMMISSIONER
WEATHER-BEATEN SECONDED BY MR.
MILLS ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF ENERGY.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES IF NOT ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I AND OPPOSED SAY
NONE.
THE MOTION CARRIES.
NEXT UP OUR REPORTS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL MEMBER
READY YOU ARE I KNOW YOU SO
WELL.
SO IT WAS A LONG, BUSY NIGHT
LAST NIGHT AND THERE ARE THREE
ITEMS OF DIRECT INTEREST AND
ONE OF INTEREST AND THEN
WHATEVER ELSE I'M FORGETTING
BUT THE THREE OF DIRECT
INTEREST ARE THE COUNCIL
APPROVES THE UDC AMENDMENTS FOR
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS WANTED TO REGISTER THE
QUESTION THAT OR I DON'T KNOW
THE CAVEAT THAT THEY DON'T THEY
QUESTION WHETHER THE LEVEL
OF SERVICE NO MATTER WHAT YOU
CALL IT TRANSLATES TO
PEDESTRIANS, CYCLISTS, TRAVEL.
SO IF WE REALLY WANT TO DO
MULTIMODAL TRANSPORT WE HAVE TO
WORK ON IT ON A DIFFERENT
MEASURE TO CAPTURE COMFORT AND
SAFETY WHICH ARE MUCH MORE
IMPORTANT THAN CONGESTION,
WHICH IS WHAT M.O.S TRACKS.
AND WE KNOW THAT STUFF IS
THINKING ABOUT THAT AND WORKING
ON AND WE ALSO KNOW THAT STUFF
IS A LOT ABOUT IT.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER AND IN
PARTICULAR HOPES FOR FUTURE
CHANGES THAT FOCUS ON ZERO
GOALS THE 7-ELEVEN CHURCH
STREET REZONING SUPPLEMENTARY
REGS SITE PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT ALL PAST 732 PACARD
PUDI ZONING DISTRICT IN
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS PASSED
FIRST READING AND THE COUNCIL
VOTED TO PUT A CHARTER
AMENDMENT TO PROVE A
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY ON
THE BALLOT IN NOVEMBER.
PLEASE VOTE AND BRING EVERYONE
TO THE POLLS TO VOTE.
DID I FORGET ANYTHING USED IN
THE NOTE THAT WAS ALL THE
COUNCIL THAT WAS ALL THE
PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS
AND THAT WAS REALLY ALL THE
COUNCIL BUSINESS ANYTHING.
YEAH, IT'S THANK YOU VERY MUCH
KELLY MANAGER OR NO MANAGER OR
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER REASONS FOR YES.
THE PROVISIONS COMMITTEE MET ON
APRIL TWENTY THIRD AND
DISCUSSED A PETITION THAT'S
BEEN SUBMITTED TO OUR FIVE
AMENDMENTS TO THE VOTING
DISTRICT WHICH INCLUDE THINGS
LIKE CURB CUTS, MODIFYING
FOLLOWABLE BUILDING DIMENSION'S
FOR LARGER SITES, EXCEPTIONS TO
MINIMUM BUILDING PROJECT
REQUIREMENTS, EXEMPTIONS FOR
USER SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR
PARKING STRUCTURES AND
CLARIFYING WHAT WE HOW WE
DEFINE A BLOCK.
SO WE DISCUSSED THAT THERE WAS
NO ACTION TAKEN IN THE
PROVISIONS COMMITTEE MEETINGS.
THOSE WILL BE COMING TO THE
FULL COMMISSION AND AT SOME
POINT THERE MAY TWENTY THIRD TO
ALL OF YOU TO DISCUSS SO YOU
CAN LOOK FORWARD TO THE GREAT
MAY 14TH AND SOME OF THE WORK
NETWORKING SESSIONS WITH SOON
BEING NEXT WEEK NEXT WEEK.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMISSIONERS I WANT TO
THANK THE RAPPORTEUR MS.
QUICK UPDATE ON THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION THAT
WE WILL BE ABLE TO OBTAIN.
SO IT IS A LITTLE WHILE AGO WE
JUST REVIEWED BUDGET ON THE
ACTIVITY ONE FUNDING ALLOCATION
OF THE GASOLINE TAX, SOMETHING
TO BE AWARE OF .
IT'S KIND OF STARTING TO
PLATEAU IN TERMS OF THAT FIFTY
ON THE REVENUE SIDE SIDEWALK
CONSTRUCTION MILLAGE LOOKING AT
THE MAIN STREET UPGRADE THE
SIDEWALK FROM OBVIOUSLY STADIUM
CLIMATE ACTION VILLAGE IS ALL
GOING TOWARDS CROSSWELL STREET
LIGHTS AND BIKE LANE UPGRADES
IS ABOUT 700000 OF THE OTHER
ONES WE TALK ABOUT SERIOUS
CRASH RESPONSES AND SOME OF THE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE'RE SEEING
AROUND THE TOWNS THE JUST THE
EAST MEDICAL CENTER DRIVE
CONSTRUCTION IS GOING UNTIL THE
END OF TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND I
THINK THE M DOT HAS INDICATED A
WILLINGNESS TO ADD NON
OVERRIDES ACTIONS ACROSS U.S.
TWENTY THREE BUT THAT'S STILL
KIND OF ON THE WAY AS FAR AS
DISCUSSIONS GO AND THEN THE
STATE AND HILL IMPROVEMENT THEY
DIDN'T SAY THAT THE
CONSTRUCTIONS ARE INTENDED TO
BE COMPLETED BY BIOLOGISTS
.
WE'LL SEE IF THAT HAPPENS.
JUST WANTED TO GIVE EVERYBODY A
HEADS UP ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS REPORTS IF NOT
ALREADY COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S KEEP MOVING
ON.
WE'RE GOING TO JUMP TO NUMBER
SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
PERSON TO SPEED UP THE THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE ISSUE THAT'S
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS ISSUE.
I WELL, FIRST OF ALL,
INDIVIDUALS HERE AND THEN
PARTICIPANT SO IT SEEMS DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING ROOM ONLY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OF LISTENED BY PHONE OR DO YOU
THINK RAISING A TEACHER AND
DOING ONE MICROPHONE ACCESS TO
HIS COLLEAGUES SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN HUNDRED NINETY NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF ALSO THE
CALLERS RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR BY THE NAME
AVAILABLE YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT SAYING
THAT THIS IS ALLOWING ME TO
SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA.
THE BACKGROUND SO YOU CAN HEAR
THE CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE TAKE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
SO ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME ON A
MATTER THAT IS NOT ON THE
AGENDA.
MR. BERGER.
THANK YOU, CHAIRMAN KEN
GOVERNOR TWENTY YOU HAVE A
PHONE CALL FROM THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
FORGIVE ME IF I GET SOME OF THE
DETAILS WRONG AND THIS JUST
CAME UP BUT SOMETIME AGO WHEN
YOU REMOVED THE FOIA PREMIUM
INCENTIVES FOR THE DOWNTOWN, I
SUGGESTED THAT YOU REVISIT THE
EXEMPTIONS WHICH IF YOU
REMEMBER ALLOW A DOWNTOWN
BUILDING TO GO 30 PERCENT
HIGHER IF THEY DO ONE OF TWO
THINGS MEET THE DEFINITION
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
SUSTAINABILITY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEFINITION.
I BELIEVE IS 15 PERCENT 60
PERCENT IN MY SUSTAINABILITY.
WHAT IS SOLAR PANELS COVERING
60 PERCENT OF THE ROOF AREA OR
ELECTRIFICATION READY WHICH IS
WHICH IS DEFINED IN THIS CAMP
BASICALLY SYMMETRICAL PANELS
AND TIDEWAY AND HOW ARE YOU
THEN THAT YOU KNOW, GIVEN THAT
WE'VE REMOVED WE'VE ALLOWED
FBAR IN BASICALLY ANY KIND
OF BULB AT THIS POINT WITHOUT
MEETING ANY INCENTIVES THAT WE
SHOULD TIGHTEN UP THE
INCENTIVES ON THE EXCEPTIONS
SIDE, ESPECIALLY IN THE
SUSTAINABILITY DEFINITION WHICH
MY WORST NIGHTMARE WAS THAT
SOME SUBDOMAINS MASTECTOMY WAS
GOING TO COME IN AND CLAIM
FIFTY PERCENT HIGHER HEIGHT
WHILE CALLING ITSELF
RECTIFICATIONS READY BUT
BURNING GAS FOR HEAT AND THAT
HAS JUST HAPPENED.
IT JUST HASN'T REACHED YOU YET.
BUT THERE'S A BUILDING IN 621
CHURCH THAT HASN'T FORMALLY
SUBMITTED A PLAN YET BUT
THEY'RE GOING IN FRONT OF THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD NEXT MONTH
I THINK NINETEEN STORIES OVER
200 UNITS KIND OF COVER AN
ENTIRE CITY BLOCK, YOU KNOW,
REALLY BIG BUILDING AND THEY'RE
GOING YOU'RE GOING TO BE A
HUNDRED AND NINETY FIVE WHICH
IS FORTY FIVE FEET HIGHER THAN
ONE HUNDRED FIFTY FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT FOR D ONE AND THEY'RE
SAYING THEY'RE DOING THIS FOR
SUSTAINABILITY REASONS AND SO
THEY'RE PUTTING SOME SORT
OF SOLAR PANELS ON THE ROOF.
THEY ONLY SERVE A FRACTION
OF THE BUILDING'S ELECTRICAL
NEEDS AND THEY'RE NOT
ELECTRIFYING THE BUILDING.
THEY'RE CALLING IT
ELECTRIFICATION READY.
AND SO WHAT WE HAVE HERE IS A
BUILDING THAT'S GOING TO BE
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF OUR
SUSTAINABILITY INCENTIVE AND
WILL BE BURNING GAS ON AND
THROUGHOUT THIS MASSIVE
BUILDING WHICH SEEMS TO ME THAT
THE INCENTIVE FOR
SUSTAINABILITY IS A FAILURE
HERE.
YOU MAY ARGUE THAT WHAT WE WANT
TO GO HIGHER ANYWAY I HEARD
THAT A LOT LAST NIGHT AT CITY
COUNCIL FROM A LOT OF THE
PUBLIC PRIOR TO THE EXTENT THAT
YOU INTEND BUILDINGS TO BE
RELATIVELY DECARBONIZE THE
DEFINITION FOR YOU KNOW HOW YOU
EXCEPTION IN THE UDC REALLY
ISN'T WORKING AND WE'RE SEEING
THE FIRST EXAMPLE OF IT NOW AND
YOU'LL SEE THIS BUILDING AT
SOME POINT COME BEFORE YOU FIND
OUT IF IT'S TOO LATE TO CHANGE
THAT DEFINITION.
I WOULD ARGUE THAT BUILDING
SHOULD BE BOTH AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND SUSTAINABLE AND
THAT WE SHOULD ASK
ELECTRIFICATION AT THE TIME
OF CONSTRUCTION.
THAT'S WHAT I SAID LAST TIME.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT WOULD BE A
BREACH OF FAITH AT THIS POINT
NOW THAT DEVELOPERS MOVE
FORWARD, I THINK MY TIME IS UP
RIGHT.
SORRY.
OH SURE.
I SAID THANK YOU, MR. GARBER.
HOW MANY OTHER PUBLIC COMMENTS
I'M GOING TO ACTUALLY BEFORE WE
GET TO THE REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
APPARENTLY THEY CANNOT HEAR ON
ZOOM RIGHT NOW.
SORRY ABOUT THE CALL FOR A
QUICK THREE MINUTE RECESS WE
START AND THEN WE WILL RESUME
PUBLIC DEBATE SO GIVE US WHAT
WE CAN HEAR ON THIS.
YOU CAN BROADCAST BUT I JUST
NEED TO CHECK THAT EVERYTHING
IS AS IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE
BECAUSE WE GOT SOME FEEDBACK.
SO JUST GIVE US A FEW MINUTES.
WE'LL RECONVENE AT SEVEN
SEVENTEEN.
THANK YOU, MR.
I'M GOING TO
CALL US BACK TO SESSION.
IT'S MY GAVEL.
>> WE'RE GOING TO CALL WE'RE
BACK THE PUBLIC COMMENTS IS
THERE ANYONE ELSE HERE IN
PERSON I'D LIKE TO SPEAK GET
THIS PUBLIC ON SCENE ONE.
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS.
NO ENDING IN 95.
YOU MENTIONED CHILDREN'S
PLAYING.
YOU DON'T NEED TO MUTE
PLEAS
PLEASE FOR TECHNICAL
DISCUSSIONS.
OH YES, WE CAN TRAIN OUR BA BA
BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA.
OK, YOU HAVE A AND THERE WILL
THERE WILL NOT BE A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THAT THIS MR
OH BUT
YOU KNOW ARE EITHER
A FIRE AND
THAT REALLY DOESN'T THEY ARE
AND I AM YOU AND I DON'T THINK
THAT'S GREAT THAT YOU ASPIRE TO
THE CORPORATION THIS YOU YOU
HAVE IMPARATO HE HAD BEEN
AROUND AND EVERYONE'S PREPARED
AND WE JUST TO POSTPONE IT AND
GET THAT CONTRACT AS WELL BUT
THAT GET SOME CONSIDERATION
THAT'S ALL I GOT THAT TONIGHT I
WAS ACTUALLY THINKING ABOUT.
THANK YOU MR. RUSSELL.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS CALLING
NUMBER ANYMORE NINE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO DO
THIS PLANNING COMMISSION?
HELLO MR. OBAMA AND INFORM YOU
THAT MR. POWELL, THE AGREEMENT
THAT YOU'RE CONSIDERING TONIGHT
EXCUSE ME.
HELLO.
OH, HI.
I'M SO SORRY.
THIS IS A PUBLIC COMMENT WITH
RESPECT TO ITEMS NOT ON THE
AGENDA OF THIS.
WE WILL HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING
AT THE ACTUAL AGENDA ITEM.
SO IF YOU COULD ACTUALLY CALL
BACK IT SHOULD BE THE NEXT NEXT
ITEM.
THANK YOU.
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MY THERE ARE NO FURTHER
ANSWERS.
OK, THANK YOU.
WITH THAT I'LL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENTS.
OH WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
AGENDA NUMBER SEVEN WHICH IS
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED
FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
AND WITH THAT I WILL DEFER TO
KELLY FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING ON MAY
TWENTY FIRST TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
THERE ARE FOUR ITEMS THE FIRST
OF WHICH IS TWENTY TO SEVENTEEN
CALABRO PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
I PLAN TO AMEND THE APPROVED
MERIDIAN COUNTY FARM SO I PLAN
BY REDESIGNING BUILDINGS VINI K
K S.C. THROUGH AND MEDIUM
THROUGH INCREASING THE TOTAL
UNITS FROM ONE HUNDRED TEN TO
TWENTY ONE BUILDING LOCATIONS
GENERALLY REMAIN THE SAME FOR
ALL THE TYPES OF BUILDINGS
PROPOSED A NUMBER OF UNITS PER
BUILDING CHANGES THE RATING AND
ACCOUNTING FIRMS.
THE DEVELOPMENT HAS ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT APPROVED DWELLING UNITS
FOR PROPOSED ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY ONE IN SINGLE FAMILY
TOWNHOUSE AND APARTMENT
BUILDINGS ON A THREE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY THREE THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED FORTY FIVE SQUARE FOOT
EIGHT ACRE SITE IS ON FRIDAY.
AN ACCOUNTING FIRM PUDI
DISTRICT.
THE DISTRICT IS A MIXED INCOME
HOUSING SUSTAINABLE
NEIGHBORHOOD SIXTEEN POINT
UNITS PER ACRE THE SECOND WHICH
IS THIRTY THREE TIME WASHINGTON
ASIDE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THE PROPOSED DEMOLITION OF THE
EXISTING RESTAURANT
CONSTRUCTION OF A NEW FIVE
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY
SQUARE FOOT RESTAURANT BUILDING
AND FIFTY NEW PARKING SPACES.
THE SITE IS ZONE C THREE FRENCH
COMMERCIAL DRIVE THRU IS
PROPOSED TWENTY SIXTEEN HOUSTON
SCHOOL ROAD ANNEXATION AND
ZONING AND OUR REPUBLIC'S GOALS
INITIATED ANNEXATION OF THE
VACANT TWO POINT SIXTY FIVE
ACRE PARCEL FROM KINGSVILLE
TOWNSHIPS AND REZONING TO
PUBLIC LAND AND FINALLY THREE
EIGHT ZERO ONE STONE SCHOOL
ANNEXATION AND ZONING.
ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
INITIATED ANNEXATION OF A
VACANT THREE ACRE PARCEL FROM
PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP AND
REZONING PUBLIC LAND.
THANK YOU WITH THAT WE'RE GOING
TO GO ON SECTION EIGHT WHICH IS
ON THIS UNFINISHED BUSINESS
THERE ARE NONE AND SO WITH THAT
IF YOU GO TO REGULAR BUSINESS
THIS IS SIXTEEN ON ONE SELL
STATE STREET SOUTHTOWN REZONING
THE OFFER TO AMEND THE
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS.
THIS IS A PETITION TO AMEND ITS
DOWNTOWN ZONING SIMILAR
CONDITIONS ADOPTED AND
INCORPORATED ORDINANCE NUMBER
TWENTY THREE TWENTY FOUR ZONE A
ONE POINT SIXTY SIX ACRE SITE C
ONE YARD KANSAS BUSINESS
DISTRICT WITH CONDITIONS BY
RECEIVING PARAGRAPH TO GUIDE
FROM THE PROPERTY SHALL HAVE NO
NATURAL GAS CONNECTION EXCEPT
POWER TO THE PROPERTY WILL
DEMONSTRATE CONTINUOUS
MICROGRID OPERATIONS AT SIXTY
TO SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT LESS
CARBON INTENSITY THAN THE
ELECTRICITY INCOME.
>> DOUG STAFFORD RECOMMENDATION
IS APPROVAL AND WITH THAT WE
WILL HEAD ON TO PETITION
PRESENTATION.
THANK YOU.
I'M DR. MARGARET POSHER AND I
AM THE DEVELOPER AND WE ARE AS
YOU SAID, REQUESTING A
RESTATEMENT OF CONDITIONS SO
THAT WE CAN PROVIDE THE CITY
WITH A MUCH MORE SUSTAINABLE
PROJECT AND WITH THAT I WILL
TURN IT OVER TO MY RIGHT HAND
AND ENERGY EXPERT HEIDI.
GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
UM,
HOPING TO PUT THE FIRST
THING I WANT TO TALK ABOUT IS
JUST WHAT IS THIS MICROGRID?
SO THE MICROGRID IS A COMPUTER
CONTROLLED SYSTEM THAT IS
ACTUALLY HOUSED INSIDE OF THE
NOT ONLY FOOTPRINT BUT THE
SOUTHTOWN BUILDING IT WILL
INVOLVE A FUEL CELLS THAT RUN
ON RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS, SOLAR
BATTERY STORAGE, A GEOTHERMAL
SYSTEM AND A VEHICLE TO GRID
CHARGING SYSTEM ALL OF THOSE
WHAT WE CALL THE GENERATION
ASSETS OR STORAGE ASSETS WILL
BE MONITORED BY A MICRO GRID
CONTROLLER WILL HAVE TWENTY
SEVEN REAL TIME INSIGHT INTO
WHAT'S HAPPENING WITH THE
ASSETS AND WE WILL CONFIGURE
VARIOUS PROGRAMS IN TERMS
OF WHAT OUR OUTCOME OBJECTIVES
ARE.
MOST OF THOSE WILL RELATE TO
SUSTAINABILITY OR RELIABILITY.
THEY'LL INTEGRATE WITH THE
BUILDING SYSTEM.
THE BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
RUNS ALL OF THE MECHANICAL
OPERATIONS THE HPC, THE
LIGHTING SYSTEM AND THE PURPOSE
OF THIS INTEGRATION IS TO
OPTIMIZE THE OVERALL OPERATION
TO BE AS SUSTAINABLE AS
POSSIBLE BUT ALSO TO ALLOW FOR
SHELTER IN PLACE.
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TWO
HUNDRED AND TWENTY ONE UNITS AT
SOUTHTOWN SO PROBABLY ABOUT
FOUR HUNDRED RESIDENTS AND
FIFTY FOUR PARKING SPOTS.
AND WHAT THAT MEANS IS IS THAT
THERE'S GOING TO BE AN AWFUL
LOT OF PEOPLE THAT BIKE OR WALK
AS FAR AS A CITY WANTS WE WANT
BUT WHEN IT COMES TO BAD
WEATHER OR EXTREME CONDITIONS
WE DON'T FEEL LIKE GIVING THEM
ANY OTHER OPTION OTHER THAN
SHELTERING IN PLACE IS GOOD AS
A AS A PROPERTY OWNER.
SO WE WANT TO ALLOW FOR FULLY
ENERGIZED SHELTER IN PLACE.
WE WANT TO OUR OBJECTIVE IS TO
MAINTAIN A CARBON NEGATIVE
OPERATION SO NOT JUST DO BETTER
THAN BUT TO ACTUALLY KIND
OF SET A NEW BAR IN TERMS
OF OPERATION AND THEN LASTLY TO
ESTABLISH TO MAINTAIN ENERGY
ECONOMY FOR SOUTHTOWN
RESIDENTS.
WE'RE VERY AWARE BASED ON OUR
EXPERIENCE AND OUR ONGOING
RESEARCH AND INVOLVEMENT IN THE
ENERGY INDUSTRY THAT RETAIL
UTILITY RATES ARE GOING TO DO
NOTHING BUT INCREASE AND WE
ACTUALLY THINK WE HAVE A
SOLUTION HERE TO MANAGE THOSE
TO A GREAT DEGREE AND THAT'S
IMPORTANT TO US AS WELL.
CAN YOU DO THAT?
I YEAH.
CAN YOU ACTUALLY SEE IF IT
WORKS AGAIN?
YEAH.
>> OK, THERE WE GO.
THANK YOU.
SO WHAT'S THE LANGUAGE IN
THE
ZONING MODIFICATION WHAT WE'RE
COMMITTING TO IS TO ESTABLISH
PERFORMANCE VERSUS WHAT THE
INCUMBENT ELECTRICITY PROVIDER
DOES AND WE'RE ALSO REFERRING
TO THAT IS BUSINESS AS USUAL.
SO MOST OF THE RESIDENTS AND
AABERG GET THEIR UTILITY
SERVICE WHETHER IT'S GAS OR
ELECTRIC THROUGH DTT AND SO
THAT'S THE THAT'S A BAR THAT
WE'RE EVALUATING OUR OWN
PERFORMANCE AGAINST WILL WILL
BASICALLY BE COORDINATING ALL
OF THE EFFORTS THAT I TALKED
ABOUT THAT INCLUDED IN THE
MICROGRID.
BUT ONE OF THE ASSETS THAT
RELATE SPECIFICALLY TO THIS
REQUEST ARE FUEL CELLS THAT
WILL HAVE ON SITE THE FUEL
CELLS WILL BE POWERED BY
RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS WHICH
WE'RE GOING TO GET DIRECTLY
THROUGH CONTRACTING WITH
FARMING OPERATORS AND I'M GOING
TO TALK IN THE NEXT SLIDE ABOUT
WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE
SPECIFICALLY.
BUT THE OUTCOMES WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO SUPPORT ARE
CARBON INTENSITY REDUCTION.
SO BY OUR MEASUREMENT WE THINK
THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY REDUCE THE
AMOUNT OF CO2 OR GREENHOUSE GAS
THAT THAT'S PUT OUT INTO THE
ENVIRONMENT BY ABOUT 7000
METRIC TONS WHICH IS OVER ON A
YEAR OVER YEAR BASIS WHICH IS
PRETTY SUBSTANTIAL.
WE ALSO THINK THAT WE WILL BE
ABLE TO LOWER ON SITE
ELECTRICITY COSTS ESPECIALLY AS
ELECTRICITY RATES INCREASE FOR
TYPICAL ELECTRICITY CLIENTS ON
THE GREENHOUSE GAS AND WHAT
HAPPENS WITH THAT'S A BIG
QUESTION AND WE KNOW WE HAVE TO
NOT ONLY ANSWER THAT QUESTION
NOW BUT PROVIDE INFORMATION
ABOUT HOW WE'RE DOING THAT
PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES
OBJECTIVE WHEN THE CHEMICAL
PROCESS THAT THE FUEL CELL USES
TO TAKE GAS AND BREAKS IT DOWN
INTO WATER, HYDROGEN AND CO2,
THERE'LL BE NO COMBUSTION ON
SITE AND WILL ALSO HAVE CO2
COLLECTION UNITS THAT WILL
BASICALLY CAPTURE THAT AND
ALLOW US TO SELL IT TO ANOTHER
USER.
WE CAN ALSO SEQUESTER BUT THE
CO2 WILL BE COMPLETELY CAPTURED
BY THE FUEL CELL.
ONE THING THAT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO NOTE IS THIS IS A
TRANSITIONAL PLAN.
OBVIOUSLY OUR OBJECTIVE WOULD
BE TO USE EITHER EVEN MORE
SUSTAINABLE, MORE RENEWABLE
FUEL OR SYNTHETIC FUEL.
BUT THE OIL COMPANIES ARE
CALLING MOLECULAR FUEL TO FUEL
THESE FUEL CELLS AND AN
IMPORTANT THING TO KNOW ABOUT
AS WE MAKE THIS TRANSITION IS
THAT THE FUEL CELLS THEMSELVES
STAY IN PLACE.
THE THE FILTERS ARE TYPICALLY
CHANGED PERIODICALLY SO EVERY
FIVE TO SEVEN YEARS THOSE
FILTERS GET CHANGED AND THE
CHEMISTRY INSIDE THE FILTERS IS
BASICALLY CUSTOMIZED TO
WHATEVER THE FUEL SOURCE IS.
SO IF WE FOR EXAMPLE, WENT FROM
RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS TO
HYDROGEN THERE WOULD BE
DIFFERENT CHEMISTRY INSIDE THE
FILTERS BUT WE WOULD USE THE
SAME FUEL CELLS.
SO IT'S IT'S NOT GOING TO BE
ANY KIND OF ONEROUS COST TO US
TO CHANGE TO AN EVEN GREENER
FUEL WHEN THOSE BECOME
AVAILABLE.
AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER BECAUSE THIS REALLY
WILL HELP US HIT ALL THREE
OF OUR OBJECTIVES WHICH ARE
SUSTAINABILITY, RESILIENCE AND
LOWER COST OVERALL.
ALL RIGHT.
LET'S TALK ABOUT COWS AND HOW
DO WE HOW DO WE MAKE HOW DO HOW
DO WE MAKE THIS RENEWABLE FUEL
?
WELL, FIRST OF ALL, A MANURE IS
COLLECTED FROM FROM DAIRY
FARMERS AND IT'S PUT INTO
DIGESTERS AND THE DIGESTERS
KEEP ALL OF THAT GAS FROM GOING
OUT INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
THE ANAEROBIC PROCESS THAT
COLLECTS GAS CREATES FORTY FIVE
TO SIXTY FIVE PERCENT PURE
METHANE AS AN OUTCOME OF THAT
PROCESS AND ALSO CREATES YEAH
IT ALSO ONLY THREE MINUTES LEFT
AT TEN.
WOW.
OK.
IT ALSO CREATES WATER OR
FERTILIZER AND BETTY SO THE THE
GAS GOES THROUGH ITS OWN
FILTERING AS PART OF THAT
DIGESTION SYSTEM IT GETS
INJECTED INTO THE FUEL SYSTEM.
THE THE GAS IS PURIFIED FROM
THERE THEY TAKE OUT ALL THE
NOXIOUS GASES AND THEY INCREASE
IT TO GREATER METHANE CONTENT
WHICH IS ABOUT 90 PERCENT PURE.
SO WHY IS THIS RENEWABLE?
WELL, IT ABSORBS MORE
GREENHOUSE GAS THAN IT EMITS
AND IT ALSO KEEP IT PREVENTS
THE MANURE FROM EXPRESSING
GREENHOUSE GAS IN THE
ATMOSPHERE.
A COUPLE INTERESTING NUMBERS
YOU RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS
NEGATIVE NITC HYPERSCORE SOLAR
EIGHTEEN POSITIVE EIGHTEEN
CARBONS CARBON INTENSITY SCORE
REGULAR NATURAL GAS SIXTEEN
CARBON INTENSITY SCORE SO THIS
IS QUITE A BIT LOWER.
THIS IS WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE IT
GOES INTO WHEN IT COMES TO US
IT GOES TO THE FUEL SO IT COMES
IN AS PURE ALMOST PURE METHANE
AND MIXES WITH OXYGEN AND LIKE
I SAID IT CREATES ELECTRICITY,
WATER, HYDROGEN, CARBON DIOXIDE
,CARBON DIOXIDE IS CAPTURED ON
SITE AND IT'S THEY'RE SOLD TO A
THIRD PARTY OR IT CAN BE
SEQUESTERED.
REALLY IMPORTANT CHART HERE.
THE BLUE LINE JUST BELOW 60 IS
WHAT ALMOST EVERYONE IN ANN
ARBOR IS IS PERFORMING AT IN
TERMS OF THE ELECTRICITY THEY
BUY FROM DETI THE ORANGE LINE
IS WHAT DC SAYS IT'S GOING TO
DO.
THE GREEN LINE WOULD BE OUR
FUEL CELL IF WE WERE OPERATING
ON LANDFILL GAS THE BLUE LINE
IS LANDFILL GAS PLUS
CARBON CAPTURE AND THE PURPLE
LINE THAT'S LESS THAN ZERO IS
FOR USE IN RENEWABLE NATURAL
GAS AND CAPTURE CAPTURE
CARBON WHICH IS WHAT WE
ACTUALLY INTEND TO DO.
I'M JUST GOING TO ZIP THROUGH
TO THE SIDE.
I'M SURE IT IS.
WE'RE TALKING LATER I I THINK I
HAVE THE LIBERTY TO EXTEND THE
TIME TO IT'S OK GREAT GOOD
BECAUSE I'VE REALLY SET UP
THERE.
YEAH.
NOW I JUST WENT INTO
GUILLERMO'S OK SO ON THE RIGHT
HAND SIDE WE'VE GOT THE
BUSINESS AS USUAL ALL RIGHT SO
IF WE HAD BUILT THE BUILDING TO
REGULAR TWENTY FIFTEEN
STANDARDS AND WE MET THAT
BUILDING CODE AND WE POWERED IT
THROUGH ITS ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
AND WE DIDN'T WE JUST MET ALL
OF THE OBJECTIVES IN TERMS
OF THE CODE , THE MECHANICAL
SYSTEM AND GOT DTT ELECTRIC AND
PUT OUR TRANSFORMERS IN OUR
BUILDING.
WE WOULD WE WOULD CREATE ABOUT
TWENTY FIVE POINT SIX METRIC
TONS OF GREENHOUSE GAS PER
SQUARE FOOT PER YEAR.
ON THE LEFT HAND SIDE IS OUR
APPROACH AND OUR APPROACH IS TO
DO THE MASS TIMBER CONSTRUCTION
SO THAT MEANS OFFSITE PANEL
CONSTRUCTION.
>> THAT MEANS USE MICHIGAN
GREEN ELECTRICITY AS WE BUILD
IT MEANS USE A PASSIVE ENVELOPE
TO THE EXTENT THAT WE CAN
WITHOUT REALLY MESSING OUR
GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM BECAUSE IT'S
IT'S IT'S A TRICKY MISTRESS AND
YOU GOT TO MAKE SURE YOU
PROTECT THAT FIELD.
SO THAT'S OUR NUMBER ONE
OBJECTIVE.
>> WE'LL USE GEOTHERMAL.
WE'LL USE HEATING AND COOLING
LOAD CAPACITY THAT RUNS ON HEAT
PUMPS AND CHILLER LOADS TO
OPTIMIZE THE GEOTHERMAL SYSTEM
WILL OPTIMIZE ALL OF OUR
MECHANICAL SYSTEMS WHETHER IT'S
AIR EXCHANGERS, EVERYTHING
EVERYTHING THAT YOU CAN DO TO
MAKE A SUSTAINABLE DECISION.
THAT'S WHAT WE'VE DONE WITH THE
WITH DESIGN CHOICES AROUND THE
SOUTHTOWN.
WE'LL INCLUDE TENANT DEMAND
REDUCTION AND AS PART OF THE
TENANT DEMAND REDUCTION AS WE
CREATE CARBON INTENSITY AVOIDED
AND INCENTIVES AND SO THE
CARBON CREDITS OUT INTO THE
MARKETPLACE WILL REWARD OUR
TENANTS.
WE'LL REWARD OUR TENANTS FOR
THEIR PARTICIPATION IN THE
PROGRAM AS WELL.
>> SO IT'LL BE IT'LL BE VERY
MUCH A HOLISTIC ENVIRONMENT
AROUND CONSERVING ENERGY SO WE
HAVEN'T EVEN GOTTEN TO THE PART
UNTIL WE GET TO THE LAST SQUARE
ABOUT ACTUALLY USING FUEL
WHATEVER'S LEFT IN TERMS OF THE
DEMAND OF THE BUILDING AFTER WE
TAKE ALL OF THOSE MEASURES ON
THE LEFT HAND SIDE, WE'LL HAVE
A DISPATCH ORDER THAT'S AS
GREEN AS IT POSSIBLY CAN DO.
SO THE FIRST DISPATCH ASSET IS
SOLAR FOLLOWED BY ENERGY THE
STORAGE FROM SOLAR CHARGING.
SO THE DISPATCH OF LAST RESORT
IS USING THE FUEL CELL WHICH
AGAIN WILL HAVE RENEWABLE
NATURAL GAS FROM DAIRY FARMERS
AND RUNS AT A NEGATIVE AT A
NEGATIVE CARBON INTENSITY
BECAUSE THAT FUELS JUST SO SO
CARBON INTENSIVE BASED ON THE
AMOUNT OF CO2 THAT IT'S ALREADY
CAPTURED IN THE PROCESS
OF EITHER MAKING IT OR BEFORE
IT ACTUALLY GETS TO THE
DIGESTER WHEN YOU ADD UP ALL
OF THAT EFFICIENCY NUMBER ONE,
YOU'RE ACTUALLY AVOIDING THIRTY
ONE POINT FOUR METRIC TONS
OF GREENHOUSE GAS PER SQUARE
FOOT AS OPPOSED TO BURNING
TWENTY FIVE POINT SIX.
>> BUT EVEN MORE IMPORTANTLY AS
A COLLECTIVE FOR THE ENTIRE
YEAR YEAR AFTER YEAR YOU ARE
PERFORMING AT NEGATIVE SEVEN
THOUSAND METRIC TONS
OF GREENHOUSE GAS AND THAT SCOP
IN SCOPE TO SOW THE HIGHEST
ORDER AND THE BIGGEST HIT ARE
IN TERMS OF SUSTAINABILITY
WHICH IS, YOU KNOW, INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT.
HELP ME AND I'VE GOT ONE ALL
SECONDS REMAINING.
OK, WHY DON'T WE EXTEND ALONG
FOR LIKE THIRTY SECONDS OK.
THIRTY SECONDS.
SO BECAUSE I KNOW THERE'S GOING
TO BE A LOT OF QUESTIONS AND
ANSWER THE REST OF IT AND THE
QUESTIONS AS I MENTIONED YOU
ELECTRICITY COSTS ARE GOING UP
BECAUSE I HAVE TO THERE'S LOTS
OF THERE'S LOTS
OF INFRASTRUCTURE THAT HAS TO
BE REPLACED.
THERE'S LOTS UPGRADES THAT HAVE
TO BE MADE AND THERE'S LOTS
OF GENERATION PLANTS THAT HAVE
TO BE SUBSTANTIALLY UPGRADED
INTO RENEWABLE STANDARDS TO
MEET WITH, YOU KNOW, MANDATES
THAT ARE HANDED DOWN BY THE
GOVERNMENT.
BUT WE THINK WE'LL BE ABLE TO
DO IS KEEP OUR PRICING VERY
CONSISTENT AND WE'LL BE ABLE TO
KEEP IT MUCH MORE IN CONTROL IN
TERMS OF THE OVERALL IMPACT TO
OUR CUSTOMERS.
SO BETWEEN 2026 AND 2040 WE
FORECAST THAT ENERGY SAVINGS
WILL BE MORE THAN FOUR HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO THE TENANTS
OF SOUTHTOWN VERSUS OTHER FOLKS
THAT ARE PAYING RIGHT AS A
FUNCTION OF THESE INCREASES
THAT ARE UNAVOIDABLE.
OK, ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES
WE'VE COME UP WITH SOME
LANGUAGE THAT'S GOING TO GO
INTO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
AND IT BASICALLY GOES THROUGH
EVERYTHING THAT I SAID AND IT
JUST KIND OF WALKS THROUGH THE
PROCESS OF TRANSITIONING
BETWEEN RENEWABLE NATURAL GAS
TO WHATEVER THE MOST
SUSTAINABLE OBJECTIVE IS OR I'M
SORRY FUEL TYPE IS FOR US.
YOU KNOW WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN WITH GREEN
CARBON OR WITH GREEN HYDROGEN.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN WITH ANY OTHER KIND
OF FORMS OF SYNTHETIC OR
MOLECULAR GAS.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S YOU KNOW,
WITH RESPECT TO THE RENEWABLE
NATURAL GAS, SOME PEOPLE HAVE
ASKED THE QUESTION WHAT IF YOU
CAN'T MAKE A CONTRACT WITH
DAIRY FARMERS?
I MEAN, YOU KNOW MISSY STOLTZ
MAKES A POINT THAT THERE'S
PLENTY OF FEEDSTOCK AVAILABLE
WHERE THAT CAME FROM.
SO MAYBE WE'LL DO A PROJECT
WITH THE CITY TO DO SOME OTHER
FORM OF DIGESTER.
THE OBJECTIVE IS TO GET BELOW
THE LINE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
THERE ARE MANY, MANY REASONS TO
DO THAT.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY IN TERMS
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR OUR
COMPANY AS WELL IN TERMS
OF PUSHING THE PUSHING THE
ENVELOPE IN TERMS OF CREATING
VALUE AND IT DOESN'T TAKE VERY
LONG IN TERMS OF STUDYING THE
CLIMATE ECONOMY TO TO
UNDERSTAND HOW TRUE THAT IS.
SO IT'S BOTH A AND OBJECTIVE IN
TERMS OF OF MEETING THE
OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY BUT IT'S
ALSO OBJECTIVE GOOD BUSINESS
AND FIGURING OUT WAYS TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THE CLIMATE
ECONOMY AND THAT'S WHAT I FEEL
LIKE WE'RE DOING SO THERE'LL BE
AN ANNUAL REPORT THAT'LL TALK
ABOUT PERFORMANCE.
IT'LL BE VERY DATA INTENSIVE.
WE'LL BE COLLECTING ALL SORTS
OF DATA ANYWAY AND THAT CENTRAL
COMPARISON THAT WE'RE PROMISING
TO IN TERMS OF THE ZONING
LANGUAGE WILL BE AT THE CENTER
OF EVERYTHING THAT'S IN THAT
REPORT AND THEN I INCLUDED US
IN HERE.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK WE NEED
TO GO THROUGH THESE FUEL CELLS
ARE VERY, VERY SAFE.
WE HAVE LOTS OF DISCUSSION
ABOUT THAT.
BUT YOU KNOW, THEY'VE BEEN IN
THESE ENVIRONMENTS FOR TWO
HUNDRED, 200 YEARS FOR THE LAST
TWENTY YEARS IN CONNECTICUT BUT
THERE'S LIKE 800 UNITS
OPERATING AND MONITORED 24
SEVEN BY THIS COMPANY.
SO I INCLUDED SOME INFORMATION
IN THERE.
IT'S MORE OF A TAKEAWAY BUT
THEY'RE INCREDIBLY SAFE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
APPRECIATE IT.
NOW WE MOVE ON TO SECRETARY
JUST A LITTLE I THINK YOU ALSO
WANT TO MENTION THAT WE'VE GOT
SKULKS THANK AS I MENTIONED
THIS IS THE ONE SOUTHTOWN SOUTH
STATE STREET SOUTHTOWN ARIZONA
WITH AN OFFER TO AMEND THE
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS.
IN SUMMARY, THE SITE IS
CURRENTLY ZONED C ONE A YARD
WITH CONDITIONS BEING A THERE'S
A MAXIMUM HEIGHT LIMIT BE A
MAXIMUM VEHICLE PARKING SPACE
LIMIT C USE LIMITATION AND THE
ELIMINATION ON NATURAL GAS
CONNECTIONS AND THE PROPOSED
ZONING IS C WHEN THEY ARE WITH
CONDITIONS REPEATING A, B AND C
BUT D WILL BE A REQUIREMENT TO
OPERATE A CARBON EFFICIENT
CONTINUOUS MICROGRID AND A
COUPLE OF DIFFERENT PLACES WITH
THE EXACT LANGUAGE THAT WILL BE
SWAPPED OUT IN THE CONDITIONAL
ON STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS, AN
AMENDMENT TO CHANGE OR AN
AMENDMENT OR A CHANGE TO A
CONDITIONAL ZONING STATEMENT
OF CONDITIONS THAT WAS DUE TO
HIS OFFICE EVERY BEING ADOPTED
AND INCORPORATED INTO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE OF THE CODE IS
SUBJECT TO REVIEW AND APPROVAL
PROCEDURES OF A REZONING
PETITION AS IF IT WAS C ONE.
THEY ARE TO APPEAL.
THE REPORT GOES INTO A LITTLE
BIT OF EXISTING CONDITIONS AND
BACKGROUND OF THE SOUTHTOWN
PROJECT AND LINKED TO THE STAFF
REPORT WHERE THE OTHER STAFF
REPORTS FOR THE ACTUAL PROJECT
HAPPY TO GET INTO THEM BUT I'LL
SKIP OVER THEM FOR THIS MOMENT
I THINK IS THE REALLY MENTIONED
BUT IT'S WORTH REPEATING THE
CURRENT POWER PLAN AND WHAT WAS
THE BASIS FOR REZONING AND SITE
PLAN APPROVAL WAS THE PROJECT
WAS TO BE POWERED USING THE
ELECTRICAL GRID AND HAVING A
INTERNAL COMBUSTION GENERATOR
OPERATED BY NATURAL GAS JUST
FOR ITS EMERGENCY BACKUP.
THE PROPOSED POWER PLAN IS AS
DESCRIBED BUT IT'S THEY WILL
POWER AND OPERATE AN ON SITE
FUEL CELLS TO GENERATE
ELECTRICITY HENCE THE TERM
MICROGRID.
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND TO HELP EXPLAIN
WHAT THE FUEL CELL IS.
I THINK THAT'S ALSO BEEN WELL
COVERED IN THE A PRESENTATION.
>> AND SO WITH THAT I WILL SAY
THAT STAFF RECOMMEND THAT THE
OFFER TO AMEND THE CONDITIONAL
STATEMENT OF CONDITIONS IS
ACCEPTED BECAUSE IT MEETS THE
INTENTION FOR A REDUCED
CARBON INTENSITY AND WILL
RESULT IN THE PROJECT AS BOTH
MORE SUSTAINABLE AND CLIMATE
FRIENDLY THAN CONVENTIONAL
PROJECTS AS WELL AS THE
ORIGINALLY ACCEPTED CONDITION.
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS
OR I'M THE VOTERS ARE AS WELL
THEY MIGHT BE MORE ABLE TO FUEL
SO I SURE HOPE SO.
OTHERWISE SEVERAL THINGS LIKE
SUGGEST WHY THE QUESTION FOR OH
SO LONG I THINK WE GO ON TO
PUBLIC OPINION.
THANK YOU.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THE STAFF
PRESENTATION THAT I JUST WANT
TO SHOW YOU THIS THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING FROM A
STAFF PERSPECTIVE IF YOU
SOMETIMES SOMETHING I AM
APPRECIATIVE OF INNOVATION.
WELL HERE I'M HERE AND WE'RE
JUST THIS IS SOMETHING THAT IS
GOOD FOR THE FUTURE BY
PROVIDING VOLUNTEER FOR THE
CITY AND SO I IS REALLY WAITING
UNTIL THE END FOR THIS TYPE
OF PROJECT FOR THE MOST PART IN
THIS ITERATION SPACE SHIP
CHAPARE.
THANK YOU.
WE'RE NOT LEAVING ON A PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
ITEM WILL FIRST CALL ON
INDIVIDUAL PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE CONDITION THAT REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS SPEAK DURING THIS
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR AND I'M
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE A
RIGHT HAND FEATURE IF YOU WAIT
FOR THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE ALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERVENING IT
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
ALSO ARE CALLERS AND RAISE YOUR
IN THE LAST THREE DAYS OF THE
PHONE NUMBER OR NAME AVAILABLE
YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALONG WITH THE SPEAKER SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
BACK YOUR BACK BY THE SO THAT
WE CAN HEAR CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF THE
COMMENTS.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYBODY PRESENT
THAT WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS
CERVI?
WE'RE GOING TO BE MOVED TO THE
REMOTE ACTUALLY IF ONE OF OUR
PETITIONER GUESTS COULD MAKE
ROOM FOR MR. OVER TO MAKE A
PUBLIC COMMENT KNOW THE
MICROPHONE IS RIGHT THERE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU TRULY.
KIM GARBA AGAIN.
FIRST OF ALL I WANT TO POINT
OUT THIS JUST HOW UNIQUE THIS
CIRCUMSTANCES I'VE BEEN
ATTENDING PLANNING COMMISSIONS
REGULARLY LONGER THAN ANY WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF COMMISSIONER,
WHETHER IT BE YOUR COMMISSIONER
MILLS AND AND YOU TOOK A LONG
TIME BUT I HAVE NEVER HEARD ANY
DEVELOPER TALK ABOUT THINGS
LIKE CARBON ACCOUNTING FOR
EMISSIONS PREVENTED OR
CARBON INTENSITY MUCH LESS
PRODUCE AN ANNUAL REPORT ON ALL
THESE SUBJECTS AND JUST THAT
FACT ALONE MAKES THIS JUST AN
EXCEPTIONAL KIND OF EVENT TO ME
.
YOU KNOW, I NEED TIME TO ABSORB
THE DETAILS OF THE PROPOSAL.
I REALLY HAVEN'T HAD TIME TO
LOOK AT THE PACKING MATERIALS
BUT I DO HAVE A I MEAN YEAH,
I'M INCLINED FOR SURE TO
SUPPORT THE PETITION TO CHANGE
THE I'M SORRY TO GET YOU TO
CHANGE THE CONDITIONS FOR
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT.
I WASN'T HAPPY ABOUT THE NEW
NATURAL GAS CONNECTION BUT
GIVEN THE FACT THAT THEY'RE
REMOVING THEMSELVES FROM DG
ELECTRICITY AND IF THE NATURAL
GAS WILL BE USED AS A LAST
RESORT THAT'S ACCEPTABLE TO ME
.
SO OVERALL I KNOW PROBABLY
OTHER CALLERS WILL DISAGREE
WITH ME BUT I THINK THIS IS
REALLY WORTH DIGGING INTO AND
FOR LESSONS FOR OTHER BUILDINGS
AROUND YOU KNOW, AROUND THE
CITY AND FOR POSSIBLY STANDARDS
.
THE QUESTIONS I HAVE I KNOW MY
TIME IS RUNNING OUT
CARBON CAPTURE MY ENERGY.
I'D LOVE TO LEARN ABOUT EXACTLY
WHAT TECHNOLOGY YOU'RE THINKING
OF .
I'VE BEEN READING ABOUT LOW
TEMPERATURES, SOARING CO2
CAPTURE, REGENERATION.
THE PROBLEM WITH THIS AND ALL
OTHER CARBON CAPTURE TECHNOLOGY
I'VE BEEN READING IS JUST THE
VERY ENERGY INTENSIVE
ELECTRICITY